I'm about to enter one of the world's
strangest places a country that doesn't
exist honestly you could probably find
bodies you could probably find
ammunition this is transnistria and
you've never heard of it before because
it cannot be found on any map
transnistria has its own government
currency passport and even their own
military on the surface it might seem
like any other country but inside these
mysterious borders citizens wave flags
from their communist paths and strict
military checkpoints can be found all
over so what is it really like to live
in a country that the rest of the world
thinks is fake and who exactly are the
people who call this place
home come with me as I explore
transnistria where less than 500 tourist
visit a
year getting to transnistria isn't so
easy first we have to fly to mdova
Europe's poorest and least visited
country so I'm traveling with my wife
Deana and her mom Sheila and her mom
does not know where we're going we're
literally at the airport are you excited
yeah where are we going I just sow
and she's the kind of type that just
goes with the flow and I know she's
going to have a good time but she
literally doesn't know where we're about
to board the flight to where do you
think we're
[Laughter]
[Music]
going as soon as we arrive I start to
take in the unusual Vibe of the capital
city It's a beautiful morning in Kish
now mova I'm heading out to meet my
guide Tim who's actually an american guy
that's been living in transnistria for
17 years and together we're going to be
heading in to learn all about this
strange
Place traveling from mdova into
transnistria is no joke this isn't your
typical border crossing one wrong move
and things could get messy checkpoint
checkpoint can I shoot now of course but
just like that we're in and I'm starting
to notice small differences between this
land and where we just came from it's
just fun to look out the window here you
just see that you don't usually see
infrastructure from the Soviet unions
there they didn't do anything with it
and if somebody's not taking care of it
it's collapsing driving on these roads
feels like taking a time machine back to
the Soviet Union before it dissolved
into the modern Russia we know today
here the shadow of war never fully faded
especially underground here we have a
whole network of caves that goes on for
130 km just non-stop it's not even
mapped by the way we've had cavers come
here from Australia they got lost 130 km
that's like 60 70 miles or something
yeah you can see uh the old marks on the
walls this is from the mining blocks
that built the city of Odessa there's
such this network it's built so deep
underground that during World War II it
was great bunkers and then again with
the civil war with malova between pinova
and uh malova it was also used for
bunkers how deep have you been to this
we don't go too deep because you get
back too far it's it's pitch black
honestly you could probably find bodies
you could probably find ammunition you
could probably find there might be an
old tank back there 100 km back who
knows it's so bizarre to see things like
this here like just existing and there's
nobody around it honestly makes me want
to walk through it and see how far I can
go so this one has a star this was
carved by uh Soviet soldiers in World
War II and this is the Soviet star
that's not the original paint there's
some bikers from terespol that come out
here and paint it every year but inside
this particular cave we brought you here
because the names of the World War II
soldiers are carved on the wall along
with the date there's a good hangout
spot for kids there's seashells this um
actually had million million years and
it's holy crap part of s sea yeah me
back for sure there were lights it's
cold in here these old rusted things
these carried uh
electricity uh uh Communications cables
even water going all the way back so the
soldiers who were uh carrying ammunition
and had jeeps and tanks had electricity
water
Communications this is so freaky man
we've only stepped just inside was there
a lot of like combat here in World War
II Oh yeah this is the front lines of
what they called the kitchen Al Yash
offensive and it was the biggest battle
after Stalingrad but oh c but in in
Western schools you don't really learn
about no not at all before we explore
any further let's get our facts straight
what is transnistria and why is it
considered a fake country during World
War II the area became a Battleground
under Nazi occupation where thousands of
Jews and Romani people were killed in
concentration camps then when the Soviet
Union collapse in 1991 mdova became its
own independent country but transnistria
home to many Russian speakers wanted no
part of it they declared independence
although no one not even Russia
recognizes them as a Sovereign Nation
about a year later things escalated into
a brutal war between mova and
transnistrian forces backed by Russian
troops the conflict ended with a
ceasefire but Russian soldiers have
remained here ever since we've made it
somewhere on the outskirts of taspo to a
guy's house actually Tim's friend he's
got a collection of weapons we've been
told dude these buildings to me are so
bizarre it looks like they just stick it
with like gum in the middle yeah
whatever material that is throw it
together and like there it
[Music]
is very cool sounds very very communist
hearing this old record play communist
song from Soviet times send shivers down
my spine but nothing compares to the
guns he's about to show
me
right yeah he found this in kid can this
Village a monaster yeah you found it
there doesn't work no it's not illegal
if be work wow
[Music]
good yeah so you can instead of multiple
ways to
die please don't do that do you put
close to your body when you shoot cuz
the you want to put it on your shoulder
under my shoulder no no like him ah okay
yeah so your shoulder takes the uh
Reverb of a
shot
okay it's pretty heavy it's like 20
l oh do you think people die with that
sword yeah yes I'm sure they did it
wouldn't take much to die with you look
cute with that helmet on there's a
schwas inside of it oh let really this
is actually an mg34 machine gun from the
Germans in World War II it's heavy well
Arnold Schwarzenegger and Predator would
take
this dude that's crazy so trania and so
is Bulgaria 17 16 yeah oh wow that's a
beautiful hand
yeah this is over 100 years old and we
have old Soviet uniforms too socialist
oslavia 17 18 years what is this
one oh captain of
Yugoslavia could actually be a fashion
yeah it really could I swear this room
packed with all these Collectibles holds
so much value I've never seen anything
like it before in my life our journey
continues to explore some monuments in
this unrecognized country online it says
there's like a half a million people on
nria but it's like it's not true they
all left no uh it's not that they all
left the the families are still here but
usually at least one person from each
family works works outside of trans so
what what is the population I would say
about
300,000 this is a World War II Memorial
and what you'll find interesting about
all the villages here is this was the
front lines of the kitchen alash
offensive and all these names are people
who died in World War II from this
Village interesting statue cuz he's
holding a pepar machine gun which is the
machine gun that was held up over the re
tag in Germany at the end of World War
II not only is there a World War II
monument here but there is a monument to
the civil war with malova because there
was a missile strike here and this
missile unfortunately killed all these
kids uh you can see they're no older
than 18 or 19 this is a manager of the
old Soviet theater and he's going to
take us in
cool we got a lot of keys there
okay whoa this is cool man welcome to
Soviet Union in
[Music]
1950 we just entered into a Soviet
theater that's literally been untouched
for decades and this is exactly how it
was during Soviet times you can even see
the smell in here smells like the Soviet
Union the speakers the chairs the
ceilings in here is an old film movie
room where nothing has changed since
1940 W so yeah you can see it's inside
they have these poster of sun movies all
machines they have the old real movies
here from the Soviet Union exactly
nothing's changed it's all here in good
condition yeah should be in a museum
these are super valuable to someone very
rarely have I been to a place that's
completely Frozen in time it's really
the only place left in the world that
you really feel like you're in the
Soviet Union when you're traveling here
because all the other former Soviet
countries like usbekistan Armenia
Georgia they've moved on they've
developed a lot and they've become a lot
more modern and different with new
governments and new systems in place but
here in transnistria it's literally like
you're in the Soviet Union as a traveler
that's cool as someone who's interested
in history and how the world works and
the influence that the Soviet Union had
on the world it's
fascinating so this bank here you only
have a local card yeah and it's not on
the Swift Code system so you can't use
it anywhere outside of trans anista so
ethnically they're a mix of movian
ukrainians Romanians and Russians if you
have the family heritage you are
eligible for all these passports oh wow
some people I know people who have five
passports really yeah okay so we're
going to an old Soviet buffet and it's
just as it was in the Soviet Union
grandmothers make all the food they put
it out in buffet style and you just take
what you want want and it's very cheap
and healthy perfect are you hungry
yes
cow tasty oh my God see this is all
local people this is so
wild I actually met tourist here they're
from lvia you guys enjoying yeah we are
enjoying this because this is actually
part of our past we lived this but now
we are happy that we are out of this and
part of the western world thank God
going through the buffet here which
feels like Russian Grandma serving me
food thank you it's $3 a meal including
the water now this is a meal we got for
soup sour cream chicken cabbage
eggplant that up Yummy
Yummy in the light bulb here they have
the mascot from the 1980 Olympics which
was in Russia what do you think about
the cafe
check out how crazy the money Works in
transnistria so these are the Bills
they're actually the smallest bills in
the world they're tiny I have small
hands there's denominations of 25 rubles
yes they're called rubles like Russian
rubles but they're completely worthless
outside of transnistria and then you
have these plastic coins literally it's
the only place in the world where you
can find plastic coins here's one Ruble
it's a circle this is three rubles it's
a square so I guess if you're blind you
can feel the edges of it and realize the
denomination but yes they are completely
plastic
so freaking
weird like much of the region
transnistrian people follow Eastern
Orthodox Christianity which means Di and
her mother have to cover up now that
we're about to visit a church wow these
are beautiful churches here incredible
this was originally a mosque because the
Ottoman Empire controlled this region
and a Katarina the great sent her Army
from Russia to take over this area and
they did and now it's a Russian Orthodox
Church
I've been in so many churches in my life
especially all over Eastern Europe this
one's so different the way everything
just feels like it's very raw and
natural and you got Jesus lit up here in
the sunlight and in this box which is
from Jerusalem they believe that this is
the original cross that Jesus died on
and something you'll notice that tells
you about how open and free the culture
is here if this was a gothic church in
Germany there would be security
everywhere and this would be in a box
with cameras on it there's no security
yeah nothing no one's going to take it
either no one's it's really rustic and
colorful in here cool
Manda this is actually the largest
Monastery in all of mova considering
that internationally we are considered
to be in mdova right now it's so cool
and reassuring to just know that life is
normal here and beautiful and we see
things like this it's really amazing so
this is very interesting here in trans
anista because this is the largest
hammer and sickle left in the entire
region this is the entry to the old the
Soviet Factory region there was lots of
factories that shipped Goods back to
Moscow and it's a what does the symbol
mean the symbol of the Workers Party
communism right hold on is making
friends what's your name what's your
name my name
is and Dasha Dasha oh how's life life is
good yes how's Thea very nice are you
finished okay bye-bye
Paka you try in class let's try it class
means drink yeah it's a zero alcohol
drink
okay M yeah it's like you can say it's
tea before it becomes tea it's like
fermented tea it tastes like beer but
not beer yeah like a MTI be MTI fake
beer there's like a lot of young people
here I imagine that they would all want
to leave it depends if they have an
income source from outside of here they
live very well it's a paradise land here
it's a paradise land it's so cheap if
you can find a way to make money yeah
I'm digging it so far it's just like a
normal place it's so peaceful that's one
of the first things people say is how
peaceful it is I think from watching the
Western news too much they expect some
kind of marching in the street with
people with the Stalin tattooed on their
forehead or something and it's totally
normal calm peaceful yeah it's totally
peaceful which is cool how are you nice
to meet you I I like your hair class
he's like yeah I know I'm cool I'm
definitely feeling there's like this
hipster Vibe going on with these kids
with the teenagers the teenagers we saw
girl with pink hair like chains baggy
pants it's a growing movement but
they're not exactly the same because
they're there's no drug culture here so
it's just the look here right yeah
Selena goz on the background de is
pointing out all the americanisms here
it was a Steve Jobs poster got Selena
Gomez that's about it not much more
American things going on giant heads of
Lenin are everywhere here and this one's
massive there a big head it's huge it's
one of the biggest ones in the whole
region after the fall of the Soviet
Union a lot of the places tore down all
the linen heads but all of ours are
intact it's just the infrastructure is
just like in the Soviet Union but that
begs the question who runs transnistria
hey guys I just quickly popped into my
hotel to tell you about the sponsor of
this video headspace if you've never
heard of the app it's been my favorite
way to medit date for The Last 5 Years
and I was so happy when they reached out
because it's a great product that I
actually use you guys probably know that
I'm on the road most days of the year
and due to my intense travels I've
developed a lot of stress and anxiety
holy and that's why I started using
headp space every morning for 5 to 7
minutes I open up the app and meditate
to clear my mind I find the refresh
meditations to be the most helpful
because it allows me to start each day
with unclouded thoughts and a calm
mindset and trust me when I tell you
that it's wildly impacted full
especially when I'm on a crazy travel
schedule like I've been on the last 2
months across 12
countries every morning in my hotel room
I start the day fresh and therefore I
can make better videos and be more
productive just 10 days of headspace is
proven to decrease stress and increase
happiness that was so cool man and by
scanning this QR code or clicking the
link in the description down below you
can try it out completely for free for
60 days conquered it check it out and
see how headspace might be helpful for
you all right now let's hit the streets
of transnistria we have our own
Parliament and we have our own President
we have our own police force we have our
own Army we have our own border guards
but we are Monopoly State there's a mega
Corporation Called Sheriff that anything
large they own it you know they're
benevolent they're not hurting anyone
they bring a lot of goods and services
here they're the largest employer of the
place there's one man that owns Sheriff
well it's more like a conglomerate but
um but there's a guy and no one knows
where he is he owns his own Island
somewh are there protests are there
people like we don't we don't like this
no they don't care um they have their
opinions but they're not strict about
this they don't they're not going to
feel insulted if you have a different
opinion and they're pretty much
apathetic unlike Americans yeah here
they're very apathetic about politics
because they realize they're the ones
that are in control of their lives not
government transnistria is so confusing
that I'm still trying to dig deeper
about what Tim just told me what exactly
is Sheriff well in simple terms it's the
biggest company in transnistria started
in 1993 by two cops and it runs almost
everything supermarkets gas stations a
mobile network TV channels and even a
soccer team it's basically a monopoly
that has deep ties to the government
making it hugely influential for many
sheriff is the ultimate symbol of
corruption and control shaping nearly
every part of life in transnistria see
the supermarket here is called Sheriff a
big
Sheriff yeah oh my godom
said we're in the sheriff grocery store
and the way that they all dressed with
like the local outfit that looks like
Super Mario Brothers just got this ice
cold bottle of vodka for
.30 cheapest vodka in the world it's
freezing cold ice
cold
woo yeah that's strong that is
strong it's Vodka it's not water
we are now rolling up to a barge which
is basically a large you guess you don't
really call it a boat it's a giant piece
of Steel with pontoons underneath and
and that's how we're getting across yeah
this dates back to World War II because
in the old days they would have built
pontoon bridges here and tanks would
have crossed it and actually on our
River the nter there are old t34 still
on the bottom of the river so most of
the border is the river but in this case
it's not and so we can cross here
without passports these are the guys who
r run the barge so when they're not busy
they
fish actually I do more fish sometimes
we get on here and they're smashed on
vodka
yeah ah this is cool because this uh old
tree limb is the steering and breaking
mechanism for the barge they carved it
themselves that's so cool yeah the
movement's caused by the inertia of the
river that's steering but he's steering
and breaking with us yeah this gu this
guy's a legend man
[Music]
yeah we are now into UL we've barged our
way
in p p across the barge I'm left
thinking in a place like transnistria
it's easy to focus on war Soviet history
and guys with big guns but there's
another side to this story one that
often goes unnoticed the vital role of
the Babushka in Russian Babushka means
grandmother but it can refer to any old
lady who is charming and hospitable I
can't wait to bring Diana and her mom to
meet some of these ladies and see how
they keep their old traditions
alive how are
you thank you for having us
here is she making
wine this is amazing
this is the toilet situation here in the
village here we
go wow it's actually better than I
thought it was going to be what do you
think about transnistria it's abundant
inal crops how about the people nice I
just want to take a minute and
appreciate how beautiful this Village is
we're surrounded by grape trees plum
trees apple trees corn they're so rich
in natural resources and food all right
we're going to go hang out with the
babushkas or the grandmothers as they
say in Russian and get their stories
[Music]
walnuts yeah
yeah Tak walnuts okay I'll take a walnut
while I ask you some questions how do
you open
it strength
time thank you BBA what was it like
growing up here when you were younger
were there any struggles to living here
in Soviet times real communis we live it
in the communes but we didn't see like
communism yeah the prices was very low
like sausage cost two rubles and 20 CET
yeah like free free sausages for
everyone it was B time have you ever
traveled
outside she been all in Moscow and Minsk
for all her life fruits for just for
selling she never sorry she never
traveled there never so she's never left
transnistria never what do you wish that
you have in your life that you don't
have right
now I want just health and the god to
give me more some sometimes to leave and
to help kids there's a lot of Wars
happening really close to transnistria
is it something you think about does it
affect your life at
all well she talking about like if some
you know trainings and he can hear this
and of course she worrying about this
but
what do you think about the
us only bad only bad okay what's the key
to living a long happy healthy life cuz
you seem to be all of those
things all the kids like they coming at
me visit me and we working together and
I happy what do you think about Trump
and Putin
he's a leader and he's a strong leader
and he help people and protect them
about Trump well she can say nothing
about because she said like he's in the
United States and he doing business I
mean you're very beautiful and
hardworking and courageous so thank
you now I will do makeup also I like
your teeth they're beautiful
she wants both of them to sit on her
legs she won't let us leave without
giving us more things she's so
friendly she's so so so kind this is the
kind of place that you could stay for
like days and days and days and she's
just going to take care of you she wants
to give a gift another one you'll get
tons of gifts here in The Villages this
is like the hospitality of the region
yeah and this is something that's
overlooked by everyone whatever they
grow themselves in the village you are
welcome to it how is it nice yeah so
sweet
juicy there are seeds in it us spoiled
Americans growing up never had seeds in
grapes we can't eat all those look at
all
that thank
you thank you before we came here my
mom's first impression I mean
thoughts they're aggressive and they're
dominant
but it's Japan change to reality oh yeah
so she said that the reality it's the
opposite of what she thought remember
when we at the airport you don't know
where we're going she said
Maldives
yeah all right Tim there's not too many
Americans walking this land you've been
here for 17 years give me the spark
notes how did you end up in transnistria
after a few years of living in Poland I
found out that Maldova had dropped their
old Soviet Visa standards and I came
here by myself so I started working with
tourists and of course all local people
said no tourist will come here that's
silly they don't want to see the Soviet
stuff and I told them that's exactly why
they will come to be honest this is the
most fascinating slice of all of Europe
you literally feel like as close as you
can get to the actual Soviet Union we
are in the Town Center here of teraso
the biggest city in transnistria the
capital city and home of half the
population about 150,000 people live
here over here is a trans flag with a
Russian flag Russian flag's a little bit
higher and the rest are the regional
flags of transnistria the provinces and
over here are the only three
unrecognized countries that recognize
this unrecognized country that was a
confusing sentence you have stia and
abazia there used to be nag noach but
sadly that one doesn't exist anymore 34
how many years of existence transnistria
has been in I'm 33 so basically my whole
life they found this tank in the river
recently since there are not many rules
in transnistria I think we should CL it
yeah oh man this is so awesome what's
better than walking around traso
standing on a tank overlooking teras
it's the first time I've been in a tank
what do you think it's so cool how do
you feel about transn out oh my God it's
it's amazing so different not many
tourist right no everywhere you go in
transnistria you see cars like this it
looks like they can be taken out of here
and placed straight into a museum and
how much would this cost a month average
like $150 a
month I mean if you rent but like I said
most people don't rent only if they're a
student from outside of tesel most
people their family owns property
outright not the bank so all these
people around us they have cheap housing
what do the Bills look like how much you
pay every month literally like a regular
apartment your bills are going to be
like $30 a month and that includes uh
internet phone gas and electric and
water so $30 month a dollar a day for
all those things you found a dog can I
take a picture what's your name is Linda
Linda what's
up I I'll step back don't take a stick
showa he's telling her to set okay oh my
God okay I oh
wow wow very disciplined that dog freaks
me out of those teeth man
yeah wow okay thank you
she five years I so so nice to meet you
nice to meet you byebye bye bye very
nice people it's actually quite nice
this time of the year because the trees
are changing colors fall Autumn has
begun in the Parks when I was at home
when I went to a park or went for a walk
nobody Zombie Land and here look the
kids zooming around you parents the
parks and the sidewalks are full every
night this is precisely why it's called
Airplane Park you have a World War II
playing Just In the
[Music]
Park after meeting some people on the
streets of terasol Tim wants to
introduce me to one of his friends who
collects old Soviet cameras I've had a
lot of fun getting my photo taken on
vintage cameras in places like
Afghanistan so I'm stoked to see what
this guy is hiding behind closed
doors it's cooler in there because you
notice how thick these walls are they're
made from sod he made everything yeah
yeah this is my bedroom bedroom yes this
is my
guitar good
English can you tell him that he has the
best eyebrows I've ever seen you have
great eyebrows
like
wa that's so that's way nicer than the
babushka toilet all
right it's the time of year for
n wow
look
yeah fake
rock Biz Platinum didn't cost anything
free villes here just goes to show that
anywhere you are in the world when you
get out of the cities and when you go
into the rural places people are so
incredibly friendly and that's really
one of the morals of this story is that
people are happy here they live normal
lives there's all kind of crazy messed
up politics going on both here and
around the region but at the end of the
day people are just people they just
have the same wants and needs as me and
you and they want to just enjoy their
lives and that's been a really
reassuring thing to experience here in
transnistria after traveling to every
single country in the world and in
Europe I actually feel connection with
this
place
wow he wants to turn it into a giant
Museum the quality will be much better
than digital what so
big wow why does he have
that it the most random thing he
possibly could have pulled out daugh
like all the
to now goes back in the bag back in the
bag oh what's in the box
oh at all
this oh my God yeah that's in a lot of
movies a lot of the old school
independent directors they started their
careers using this old 8mm film wow
that's so cool
that's so
coolor
1950s projector what I'm surprised by is
how small it is for
1950s very
small wow 100y old
projector pooid oh wow that is one of
the first Polaroid cameras ever made wow
problem with all these old Camas
is you can't find the film for them and
also the battery you can't find the
battery somehow he got his hands on an
old American photo booth here in trans
anista I I have no idea how this
happened you'd be surprised what you can
find out here yeah yeah uh he wants to
say
uh come what is the best and the worst
part about living in
transnistria yeah he said like it's a
black soil and everything green I mean
you can grow everything yeah and uh
that's what he likes yeah is there
anything you don't like about living
here we need to change people that's in
government and will'll be everything
perfect we made it to a cool hit part of
teraso cafes bars you like it here mhm
so cool we were just talking about how
chill it is here it's just like a cool
place I don't know how to explain it
everyone's just hanging out before this
trip you don't know anything what do you
think now before I have the
awward and now description now it
changed you have a different thought
Bish away the
award description you come in with one
perception of how a placees and then you
realize that wow it's actually like
really cool here's the thing about
transnistria it might not be recognized
by the world but its story is impossible
to ignore from the Soviet Flags to the
war torn bunkers to the Babushka still
holding on to their traditions this
place truly is a time capsule but
despite being trapped in political limbo
the people here have found a way to live
to remember and to make the most of what
they've got at the end of the day it's
the uniquely Eastern European spirit
that defines transnistria so even though
only a few hundred people get to visit
each year what I've learned is that it's
often the most forgotten places that
have the most to teach us thanks for
watching and I'll see you in the next
video
[Music]